---
title: "Reading: LLM as Reranker (Fin by Intercom)"
date: 2026-05-15
description: ""
tags: [""]
---

Takeaways from Fin by Intercom: [Using LLMs as a Reranker](https://fin.ai/research/using-llms-as-a-reranker-for-rag-a-practical-guide/).
* Couple of ways to do this: (1) List-wise: input all passages, output rankings, (2) Point-wise: input all passages, output scores, (3) Pair-wise: input 2 passages, output pairs + post-mechanism to sort
* Option 1 is not parallelizable and also no use for further downstreaming purposes; in case not everything fits in a single batch, needs to run through LLM for more comparison.
* Option 2 can utilize scores for downstreams such as finetuning cross-encoders using these synthetic scores. But can suffer instability of inconsistent scores. Also possible sensitivity to input order.
* Tricks to workaround Option 2 include giving few-shot examples from different scores, shuffle inputs properly so a single batch is mixed of potential scores and mixed or ordering. Roundrobin works here.
* Handle batches is parallel re-ranking - use MergeSort.
* Tie breaking using BGE / encoder reranker
* Set some timeout for slow worker since otherwise parallelism will stuck due to single failure; handle failure using BGE
* Source diversity - can cite external and public documents; can't cite internal documents and conversation history, etc.
* Save token cost by removing spaces in input/output JSON (surprisingly expensive!, 28% less input)
* Omit low-score passages since it won't get picked anyway no need to waste resource (50% less latency)
* Dict format instead of list tuple
* Failed attempt: remove "id:" as then the LLM confuses IDs and Scores.

To check
* What is resolution rate? ==> it is a concept in customer service world when user explicitly marks interaction as resolved or leaves without explicit marking.
* A/B testing to compare two re-ranker
* Latency P50, why P50
